README.md, before:

# integrate-github-api

## Overview and Credit

This project uses GitHub's v4 API, which is based on GraphQL, to expose a REST API that's with the following functionality:

- Get the names of Google's public repositories
- Write the names of Google's public repositories to a compressed JSON file on the server

Repository structure and some functions, like catchAsyncRequest, are inherited from YouTube series: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLcCp4mjO-z9_HmJ5rSonmiEGfP-kyRMlI

## Single Command Run

Create a file called `.env` in your current directory with contents:

```txt
THIRD_PARTY_TOKEN=<your_github_personal_access_token>
```

Then run:

```bash
docker run --rm -p '3000:3000' --env-file .env mattddean/integrate_github_api:latest
```

Then, to get a shell into this running container to verify that the /tmp/knock_interview.json.gz file was successfully built, run:

````bash
docker ps # note the Container ID associated with the mattddean/integrate_github_api:latest image
docker exec -it <container_id> bash
```

> Docker will automatically download the image from Docker Hub

> Note that because the app is running in Docker, it will write the /tmp/knock_interview.json.gz to the container's filesystem, not to the host filesystem

### Stopping this container

In another shell, run:

```bash
docker ps # take note of the relevant Container ID
docker stop <container_id>
````

> Replace `<container_id>` with the relevant Container ID you found when running `docker ps`

## GraphQL Rationale

Using GitHub's GraphQL API rather than their REST one gives me two benefits:

- I can demonstrate my ability to use / adapt to GraphQL
- Best chance of avoiding deprecation
  - GitHub's GraphQL API is their newest API. In fact, they call it "V4" of their API rather than just a GraphQL version of V3. If further development is needed on this integration project, we're most likely to have access to GitHub's newest features if we use their newest API.

## Update to latest Docker Image

```bash
docker pull mattddean/integrate_github_api:latest
```

## Set up development environment

### Dependencies

- Docker

Run the following command to start your dev environment

```bash
CURRENT_USER_ID=$(id -u) CURRENT_GROUP_ID=$(id -g) docker-compose up backend
```

> Docker will connect the container's port 3000 to your host's port 3000

You should now be able to issue API requests on your host machine to localhost:3000

### Get a shell in your Docker dev environment

With the backend container "up", run:

```bash
docker-compose exec backend bash
```

In the shell exposed by the last command, run:

### Run tests

```bash
npm run test
```

## Building for Production

The app can be easily pushed to your Docker Hub registry as a container with the following commands

```bash
cd api
docker build -t <your_docker_hub_username>/integrate_github_api:latest .
docker login
docker push <your_docker_hub_username>/integrate_github_api:latest
```

> Replace `<your_docker_hub_username>` with your Docker Hub Username

## TODO

- Add GitHub's GraphQL Schema to our Apollo Client for client-side validation

Commit message:

Update README with instructions on stopping the built container

README.md, after:

# integrate-github-api

## Overview and Credit

This project uses GitHub's v4 API, which is based on GraphQL, to expose a REST API that's with the following functionality:

- Get the names of Google's public repositories
- Write the names of Google's public repositories to a compressed JSON file on the server

Repository structure and some functions, like catchAsyncRequest, are inherited from YouTube series: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLcCp4mjO-z9_HmJ5rSonmiEGfP-kyRMlI

## Single Command Run

Create a file called `.env` in your current directory with contents:

```txt
THIRD_PARTY_TOKEN=<your_github_personal_access_token>
```

Then run:

```bash
docker run --rm -p '3000:3000' --env-file .env mattddean/integrate_github_api:latest
```

Then, to get a shell into this running container to verify that the /tmp/knock_interview.json.gz file was successfully built, run:

```bash
docker ps # note the Container ID associated with the mattddean/integrate_github_api:latest image
docker exec -it <container_id> bash

```

To stop the image, run:

```bash
docker ps # note the Container ID associated with the mattddean/integrate_github_api:latest image
docker stop <container_id>
```

> Docker will automatically download the image from Docker Hub

> Note that because the app is running in Docker, it will write the /tmp/knock_interview.json.gz to the container's filesystem, not to the host filesystem

### Stopping this container

In another shell, run:

```bash
docker ps # take note of the relevant Container ID
docker stop <container_id>
```

> Replace `<container_id>` with the relevant Container ID you found when running `docker ps`

## GraphQL Rationale

Using GitHub's GraphQL API rather than their REST one gives me two benefits:

- I can demonstrate my ability to use / adapt to GraphQL
- Best chance of avoiding deprecation
  - GitHub's GraphQL API is their newest API. In fact, they call it "V4" of their API rather than just a GraphQL version of V3. If further development is needed on this integration project, we're most likely to have access to GitHub's newest features if we use their newest API.

## Update to latest Docker Image

```bash
docker pull mattddean/integrate_github_api:latest
```

## Set up development environment

### Dependencies

- Docker

Run the following command to start your dev environment

```bash
CURRENT_USER_ID=$(id -u) CURRENT_GROUP_ID=$(id -g) docker-compose up backend
```

> Docker will connect the container's port 3000 to your host's port 3000

You should now be able to issue API requests on your host machine to localhost:3000

### Get a shell in your Docker dev environment

With the backend container "up", run:

```bash
docker-compose exec backend bash
```

In the shell exposed by the last command, run:

### Run tests

```bash
npm run test
```

## Building for Production

The app can be easily pushed to your Docker Hub registry as a container with the following commands

```bash
cd api
docker build -t <your_docker_hub_username>/integrate_github_api:latest .
docker login
docker push <your_docker_hub_username>/integrate_github_api:latest
```

> Replace `<your_docker_hub_username>` with your Docker Hub Username

## TODO

- Add GitHub's GraphQL Schema to our Apollo Client for client-side validation
